# Edge: Embedded Electronics 

> Curated resources for building Embedded Electronics

Electronic engineering (EE) is the practice of understanding, designing and building electronic circuits. 



## Contents

<!-- toc -->

- [Learning](#learning)
   * [Power Calculations](#power-calculations)
   * [Technical Tutorials](#technical-tutorials)

<!-- tocstop -->

## Learning

### Power Calculations

Guide on power budget calculation for your embedded IoT protoype (Arduino + all the electronics connected to it.)

 * [Arduino MKR FOX 1200](https://store.arduino.cc/arduino-mkrfox1200)
 * [Arduino Uno Rev3](https://store.arduino.cc/arduino-uno-rev3)
 

   - Pins & Operating Voltage
   
Arduino Uno has an operating voltage of 5V, It's recommended input voltage is between 7-12V and the limit is at 20V. It has 14 (of which 6 provide PWM output) digital I/O Pins.	

   - Current

Arduino Uno has a 20 mA DC Current per I/O Pin and 50 mA DC Current for 3.3V Pin. If you have 5 LEDs at each 20mA I/O Pin, then that is 100mA making a total of ( 100 + 50 = 150 ) mA.
 
To calculate how long your battery last, you need to consider it's capacity. For a 5000mA/h battery this will last (very approximately)

5000 / 150 = 33.33 hours or 1.388 days


    - Using a multimeter 
 
If you have a multimeter with a mA selection you could also measure the current draw and get a good idea of how much you are using as well. You will need to be able to insert your probes in series with the power source and the 'Vin' pin if using the regular or VCC/+5V pin if you are running off batteries directly (say from 3 AAs for example).

You are bypassing the reverse protection diode this way, so make sure you have ground connected to ground, or ground to battery-.

You can measure between the 5.5V and ground if you are measuring voltage using the DV Volts setting on your meter.
If you want to measure current, to need to insert your meter between the 5V source and the 5V connection of your circuit so you can see  how much current is going into your circuit, you would do that with the mA setting on your meter.

- Power

The Arduino Uno board can be powered via the USB connection or with an external power supply. The power source is selected automatically. External (non-USB) power can come either from an AC-to-DC adapter (wall-wart) or battery. 

The adapter can be connected by plugging a 2.1mm center-positive plug into the board's power jack. Leads from a battery can be inserted in the GND and Vin pin headers of the POWER connector. The board can operate on an external supply from 6 to 20 volts. If supplied with less than 7V, however, the 5V pin may supply less than five volts and the board may become unstable. If using more than 12V, the voltage regulator may overheat and damage the board. 

The recommended range is 7 to 12 volts. 

The power pins are as follows:

     - Vin. The input voltage to the Arduino/Genuino board when it's using an external power source (as opposed to 5 volts from the USB connection or other regulated power source). You can supply voltage through this pin, or, if supplying voltage via the power jack, access it through this pin.
     
    -5V.This pin outputs a regulated 5V from the regulator on the board. The board can be supplied with power either from the DC power jack (7 - 12V), the USB connector (5V), or the VIN pin of the board (7-12V). Supplying voltage via the 5V or 3.3V pins bypasses the regulator, and can damage your board. We don't advise it.
    
    -3V3. A 3.3 volt supply generated by the on-board regulator. Maximum current draw is 50 mA.
    - GND. Ground pins.
    
    -IOREF. This pin on the Arduino/Genuino board provides the voltage reference with which the microcontroller operates. A properly configured shield can read the IOREF pin voltage and select the appropriate power source or enable voltage translators on the outputs to work with the 5V or 3.3V.


 - Memory (ATmega328P)
 
The ATmega328 has 32 KB (with 0.5 KB occupied by the bootloader). It also has 2 KB of SRAM and 1 KB of EEPROM (which can be read and written with the EEPROM library).

### Technical Tutorials
- [Beginning Eembedded Eelectronics](https://www.sparkfun.com/tutorials/category/1) - A wide variety of technical tutorials on various EE related skills.

## Other Resources
- [How to Measure Current consumption and why you should do it?](https://thekurks.net/blog/2018/1/4/measure-current-consumption) - A tutorial explaining how to measure the current draw of your project, and why it is so important to know / do this.
- [ Awesome Electronics ](https://github.com/kitspace/awesome-electronics) - A curated list of awesome resources for electronic engineers and hobbyists
